[SEGMENT 0]
239-240
Then in the morning the ascetic came to a different town, and the carpenter saw him and brought him to his house. He said to his wife, “Honor the ascetic tonight as if he were a prophet and seer, for I am going to drink with friends, and I will return after the sun comes up.”

[SEGMENT 1]
241
His wife had a lover, and there was a go-between between them, and the messenger between them was the wife of the barber in her neighborhood, and she appointed her friend, saying to her, “Go and bring me my lover in accordance with the law, for the man of the house is away, having gone a long way from here.”

[SEGMENT 2]
244-246
And so the lover came and sat at the door of her house, for he was infatuated with love for her. Her husband came and upon seeing her lover he went to his wife and berated her in rage and anger, stormily, “What crazy man is this who sits here, he plans to commit adultery with you?” And he beat her in loathing and hatred, for he was overcome with a spirit of jealousy. And he tied her to the column of the house and beat her again. And the wife of the barber came and saw that she was tied, and she said, “How long is your lover going to sit at the gate?” She said, “Do me this kindness and cut me from my reins and tie your soul in my place.” So she went to her lover and he lay with her. Her husband awoke and called to her and she did not answer him, and he called to her many times and she did not answer him, for she said, “He will recognize my voice and this will become known.” He got up and went to her and cut off her nose and put it in her hand and said to her, “Go and give this to your lover and it will increase his love for you!” And the other woman returned from her adultery and saw that her friend’s nose had been cut off, and she cut her from her bondage and bound herself to it.

[SEGMENT 3]
247
She raised her voice in supplication, “O Lord of Lords! Look at what my husband has done to me. Return my nose to me. Perform this miracle and purify me of this deed!” After this she said to her husband, “Get up, see the miracle the Lord did, returning my nose perfectly to its place, taking away my defect.” And he said to her, “What are you talking about, adulteress woman?” And he arose and went to her and saw, and he fell before her feet. And he said, “Now I understand that you are innocent and there is no deception in your soul. I used my strength but will not add to it, for I will never ridicule or defile a woman again: for if it is cut down, it will renew itself.” The ascetic saw all of this and heard their words.

[SEGMENT 4]
249
The wife of the barber went home and worried about all that happened to her, and she was sad and hurt and ill on account of her cut-off nose. She said, “What will I say to my husband and my family, and how will I answer about this trouble?” After this her husband awoke and said to her, “Give me all of the tools for my work, for I am going to a house of nobles.” And she gave him only the razor. He said to her, “Didn’t I say to you ‘Give me all of my tools, for I am going to the nobles’ house!’” And she gave him just the razor, and this happened again many times. He threw the razor towards her in great anger into the pupil of the night’s darkness, and she cried out a big cry and said, “My nose my nose!” All of her neighbors and relatives gathered around her, with her family and all who love her, and they brought her husband to the judge on account of his cutting off her nose. The judge ordered him beaten and punished.

[SEGMENT 5]
251
The ascetic saw all of this and heard their words. When they brought him for punishment, he encountered the judge and said that all had brought this upon themselves. The judge asked for an explanation, and he told the whole story.