[SEGMENT 0]
239-240
The day began to break and the monk went to find the robber in another place, and a good man, a carpenter, hosted him. And he said to his wife: “Honor this good man, and look after him well, since a few of my friends have asked me to drink with them and I won’t get back until it is very late.”

[SEGMENT 1]
241
And this wife had a friend, and she was a go-between/procuress and the wife of a neighbor. And she asked her to go to her lover, and inform him that her husband had been invited out and that he would not return until he was drunk and it was very late.

[SEGMENT 2]
243-246
And the lover came and sat at the door waiting to be called. And then came the carpenter, her husband, home from the place where he had gone, and he saw the lover of his wife at the door, and he regarded him with suspicion. And he treated his wife brutally, and went to her and wounded her very badly, tying her to a pillar of the house. After he went to sleep and everyone was sleeping, the wife of the barber turned to her, saying, “I have been at the door for a long time. What do you want me to do?” The wife of the carpenter said, “You see how this is, and if you would, do this nice thing for me and untie me, and I will tie you in my place for a bit, and I will go to him and I will come back afterward for you.” The barber’s wife did so, untying her and tying herself in her place. And the carpenter woke up before his wife returned, and he called her and she didn’t respond to him out of fear that he would not recognize her voice. He called her many times and she didn’t respond to him; and he treated her cruelly, getting up with a knife in his hand and cutting her nose, saying, “Take your nose and present it to your lover.” And then the wife of the shoemaker returned and saw her friend in this way, and untied her and tied herself in her place. The barber’s wife took her nose and left, the monk having seen this.

[SEGMENT 3]
247
The shoemaker’s wife thought about what had happened and that she would be suspected, and she raised her voice and said, “Oh Lord God! You see my feebleness and powerlessness, and how much evil my husband has done me, my being blameless. I beg you and ask your mercy, that if I am blameless you will save me from what my husband did, healing my nose as it was before, and showing your miracle.” Then she called her husband, saying, “Get up, false traitor, and look at God’s miracle in healing my nose, as it was before.” The husband doubted and said, “What is that that you say, evil doer?” He got up, and turned on the light and went to see; and when he saw her healed nose, he asked her pardon and repented, and she excused him of his sin.

[SEGMENT 4]
249
When the barber’s wife arrived at her house, she thought artfully on how to get out of what she had fallen into, and when the daybreak was near, she was thinking and saying in her heart, “How will I justify my shortened nose to my husband and my relatives?” And with this her husband awoke and said to his wife, “Give me all of my tools, for I want to go this morning to a noble man.” And she gave him none but the razor. And he said to her, “Give me my tools.” And she gave him none but the razor. And he abused her and threw it down in the gloom. And she let herself fall on the ground and gave loud wails and said, “Oh my nose! My nose!” Her relatives came, and they imprisoned her husband, taking him to the judge, and the judge ordered punishment.

[SEGMENT 5]
251
When they brought him for punishment, the monk encountered them, and arriving before the judge, said, “You all suffer a little for the love of God, and I will tell you all that occurred. Know that the robber did not steal my rags, nor did the goats kill the fox, nor did poison kill the procuress, nor did the barber chop off his wife’s nose; but we all did this to ourselves.” The judge begged him to explain all of this, and he told the whole story to its end.