[SEGMENT 0]
239-240
Then he [i.e., the ascetic] started out the next day in search of the thief. He was hosted by a shoemaker, who said to his wife, “Look after this ascetic. Be generous and good of comport in caring for him, as one of my friends has invited me to a party.”

[SEGMENT 1]
241
So the shoemaker left. Now, his wife had fallen in love with a man, and the messenger in [the affair] between them was the wife of a cupper. The shoemaker’s wife sent a message to the cupper’s wife, telling her to go to her lover and inform him that her husband was with his friends and would only return late and drunk.

[SEGMENT 2]
243-245
The lover came over around sunset, sitting on the doorstep and awaiting the shoemaker’s wife, and the shoemaker returned to his house as night fell, drunk. When the shoemaker saw the lover waiting on the doorstep of his house, having already suspected him before that, he was enraged and went into the house, taking his wife, beating her violently, and then tying her to a column in the house. When he fell asleep, the cupper’s wife came to her, saying, “The man has been sitting on the doorstep a long time. What do you wish to do?” The shoemaker’s wife said, “If you wish to be good and kind to me, then tie yourself in my place, so that I can go to my lover.” The cupper’s wife did it. Then the shoemaker awoke before his wife had returned, and called her by her name a few times, but the cupper’s wife did not reply to him, fearing he would recognize her voice. He called again to her a few times, but the cupper’s wife did not answer. His anger multiplied, so he went to her with a knife and cut off her nose, saying, “Take this and give it to your lover as a present!” When the shoemaker’s wife returned, she found the cupper’s wife maimed and her husband sleeping. So she freed the cupper’s wife and tied herself in her place. The cupper’s wife took her nose in her hand, and set off for home, despondent. All of that took place in the sight and hearing of the ascetic.

[SEGMENT 3]
247
Then the shoemaker’s wife raised her voice, calling upon her Lord, entreating Him. She began to beg, saying, “By God! If my husband has oppressed me, then return my nose to normal.” Her husband said to her, “You sorceress! What is all this talking?” She replied, “Stand up, you tyrant, and look upon your work; and the change of God against you; and his mercy upon me for my innocence of that which you have accused me—for God has restored my nose to normal!” He stood up and kindled a light, looking at his wife and finding her nose was normal. He confessed his sin to his Lord and begged forgiveness of his wife, asking her to be content with him.

[SEGMENT 4]
249
When the cupper’s wife had returned to her home, she pondered the tricks available to her, saying, “What shall be my excuse for my husband and for the people regarding the amputation of my nose?” Her husband awoke in the morning, calling to her, “Bring me my tools, for I want to perform cupping upon one of the nobles of the city.” She did not bring him any of the tools, except for his razor. Her husband became angry and threw the razor into the gloom. She threw herself upon the ground, screaming and crying, saying, “My nose! My nose!” She did not stop wailing until her family and relatives came to her. They took her before the judge, and the judge said to her husband, “What caused you to cut your wife’s nose off?” But there was no reason compelling him to do so, so the judge ordered that he be punished.

[SEGMENT 5]
251
When he was about to be punished, the ascetic arose and went to the judge, saying, “Let this affair not confuse you, o Judge! For it was not the thief that robbed me; and it was not the two mountain goats that killed the fox; and it was not poison that killed the adulteress; and the shoemaker’s husband did not amputate her nose. Rather, we all did this to ourselves.” The judge asked him for an explanation of that, so he related it.